# Automated-Air-Quality-Data-Retrieval
The project is a system that retrieves air quality data from the air monitoring device in Burnham Park through the aqicn.org website. Data retrieval utilizes Wi-Fi technology for wireless connectivity and the retrieved data is updated every one hour in the same way that the reading of real-time data from the air monitor in Burnham is updated every one hour from aqicn website. After retrieving data, the project then performs a check procedure if the retrieved data from aqicn is the same as the 123 data on display in the project module. This checking is done by retrieving the data three times and then comparing those three data. If all three values are the same the program will then perform the next subroutine, else it will retrieve the data three more times. And then, the project sorts relevant information needed by looking for a “+IPD” prefix and “CLOSED” suffix in the retreived data. After doing so, the data in between the prefix and suffix will be stored inside a variable. This variable will then be used for other processes in the module. Historical log on the retrieved data is done by programing the arduino to write to a text file, the filtered data. The historical log is stored in an SD card. Should a graphical representation be needed, the tabulated historical log may be utilized in order to generate graphs in Excel or other possible tools. The project displays the retrieved data using an LCD display which may be attached to a future remote outdoor air filter. Included in the display are the following: the current status of the device, the current air quality index for PM2.5 and PM10, the level of risk that the air quality index would be equivalent to, whether low, medium or high, the time and date when the air quality index is taken.
